Next-Steps Monkeysphere Projects:
---------------------------------

Detail advantages of monkeysphere: detail the race conditions in ssh,
   and how the monkeysphere can help you reduce these threat vectors:
   threat model reduction diagrams.

Determine how openssh handles multiple processes writing to
   known_hosts/authorized_keys files (lockfile, atomic appends?)

Handle unverified monkeysphere hosts in such a way that they're not
   always removed from known_hosts file.  Ask user to lsign the host
   key?

Handle multiple hostnames (multiple user IDs?) when generating host
   keys with gen-key.

Work out the details (and describe a full use case) for assigning a
   REVOKER during monkeysphere-server gen_key -- how is this set?  How
   do we export it so it's available when a second-party revocation is
   needed?

Actually enable server hostkey publication.

Streamline host key generation, publication, verification.  See
   doc/george/host-key-publication for what dkg went through on
   2008-06-19

Streamline authorized_user_ids setup (including question of where
   authorized_user_ids files should go).  See
   doc/george/user-id-configuration for what dkg went through on
   2008-06-19

Ensure that authorized_user_ids are under as tight control as ssh
   expects from authorized_keys: we don't want monkeysphere to be a
   weak link in the filesystem.

Make sure alternate ports are handled for known_hosts.

Script to import private key into ssh agent.

Provide a friendly interactive UI for marginal or failing client-side
   hostkey verifications.  Handle the common cases smoothly, and
   provide good debugging info for the unusual cases.

Make sure onak properly escapes user IDs with colons in them.

Build a decent, presentable web site for documentation, evangelism,
   etc.  Include a mention of how to report trouble or concerns.

Create ssh2openpgp or convert to full-fledged keytrans.

Resolve the bugs listed in openpgp2ssh(1):BUGS.

Understand and document alternate trustdb models.

Understand and document the output of gpg --check-trustdb:
 gpg: 3 marginal(s) needed, 1 complete(s) needed, PGP trust model
 gpg: depth: 0  valid:   2  signed:  20  trust: 0-, 0q, 0n, 0m, 0f, 2u
 gpg: depth: 1  valid:  20  signed:  67  trust: 15-, 0q, 1n, 3m, 1f, 0u
 gpg: next trustdb check due at 2008-10-09

Understand and document the numeric values between sig! and the keyid
   in "gpg --check-sigs $KEYID" .  Compare with the details found from
   "gpg --with-colons --check-sigs $KEYID".  This has to do with trust
   signatures.

Fix gpg's documentation to clarify the difference between validity and
   ownertrust.  Include better documentation for trust signatures.

Make it easier to do domain-relative ssh host trust signatures with
   gnupg. (e.g. "i trust Jamie McClelland (keyID 76CC057D) to properly
   identify ssh servers in the mayfirst.org domain") See:
   http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4880#section-5.2.3.21 and grep for
   "tsign" in gpg(1).

Fix the order of questions when user does a tsign in gpg or gpg2.

File bug against ssh-keygen about how "-R" option removes comments
   from known_hosts file.

File bug against ssh-keygen to see if we can get it to write to hash a
   known_hosts file to/from stdout/stdin.

Add environment variables sections to man pages.

Environment variable scoping.

Move environment variable precedence before conf file.

When using ssh-proxycommand, if only host keys found are expired or
   revoked, then output loud warning with prompt, or fail hard.

Update monkeysphere-ssh-proxycommand man page with new keyserver
   checking policy info.

Update monkeysphere-ssh-proxycommand man page with info about
   no-connect option.
